.specify/memory/constitution.md, before:

# CONSTITUTION.md

**Project-specific facts and conventions for Fluxo Certo**

> **For universal agent protocols**, see `../../AGENTS.md` in the project root

---

## Project Overview

**Fluxo Certo** is a personal finance management application for families. It provides cashflow projections, expense tracking, and income management with invite-only authentication.

---

## Language Guidelines

### UI Text: Brazilian Portuguese (pt-BR)

**All user-facing text MUST be in Brazilian Portuguese.** This includes:

- Page titles and headings
- Button labels and form labels
- Error messages and success messages
- Placeholders and hints
- Navigation items
- Empty states and loading states
- Tooltips and help text
- Confirmation dialogs

**Examples:**
```tsx
// ✅ Correct
<Button>Adicionar Conta</Button>
<Label>Nome da Despesa</Label>
<p>Nenhum dado disponível</p>

// ❌ Wrong
<Button>Add Account</Button>
<Label>Expense Name</Label>
<p>No data available</p>
```

### Code: English

**All code, variables, functions, and comments MUST remain in English.** This includes:

- Variable names
- Function names
- Type/Interface names
- File names
- Comments and documentation
- Git commit messages
- Console logs (for debugging)

**Examples:**
```tsx
// ✅ Correct
const handleDeleteAccount = async () => { ... }
interface BankAccount { ... }
// Calculate the total balance

// ❌ Wrong
const handleExcluirConta = async () => { ... }
interface ContaBancaria { ... }
// Calcular o saldo total
```

---

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript + Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui components
- **State**: Zustand
- **Backend**: Supabase (PostgreSQL + Auth + Realtime)
- **Deployment**: Vercel

---

## Currency

- **Default currency**: BRL (Brazilian Real)
- **Format**: `R$ 1.234,56` (Brazilian locale)
- **Internal storage**: Cents (integers) to avoid floating point issues

---

## Authentication

- **Method**: Magic Link (email-based, passwordless)
- **Access control**: Invite-only via `allowed_emails` table
- **Session**: 7-day duration with auto-refresh

---

## Key Directories

```text
src/
├── components/     # React components
├── hooks/          # Custom React hooks
├── lib/            # Utilities and helpers
├── pages/          # Route pages
├── stores/         # Zustand stores
└── types/          # TypeScript types

supabase/
├── functions/      # Edge Functions
└── migrations/     # Database migrations

.specify/specs/     # Feature specifications
docs/               # Documentation
```

---

## Conventions

### File Naming
- Components: `kebab-case.tsx` (e.g., `account-form.tsx`)
- Hooks: `use-*.ts` (e.g., `use-auth.ts`)
- Types: `*.ts` in `types/` directory

### Component Structure
- One component per file (with internal helper components allowed)
- Props interface defined above component
- Export named components (not default)

### State Management
- Global state: Zustand stores
- Local state: React useState/useReducer
- Server state: Direct Supabase queries with realtime subscriptions

Commit message:

docs(onboarding): align signup/onboarding/tours artifacts
- Align spec/plan/tasks + quickstart validations

- Clarify self-serve Magic Link + /auth/confirm redirect + local dev port

- Add perf/measurement notes; update constitution + README wording

.specify/memory/constitution.md, after:

# CONSTITUTION.md

**Project-specific facts and conventions for Fluxo Certo**

> **For universal agent protocols**, see `../../AGENTS.md` in the project root

---

## Project Overview

**Fluxo Certo** is a personal finance management application for families. It provides cashflow projections, expense tracking, and income management with Magic Link authentication.

---

## Language Guidelines

### UI Text: Brazilian Portuguese (pt-BR)

**All user-facing text MUST be in Brazilian Portuguese.** This includes:

- Page titles and headings
- Button labels and form labels
- Error messages and success messages
- Placeholders and hints
- Navigation items
- Empty states and loading states
- Tooltips and help text
- Confirmation dialogs

**Examples:**
```tsx
// ✅ Correct
<Button>Adicionar Conta</Button>
<Label>Nome da Despesa</Label>
<p>Nenhum dado disponível</p>

// ❌ Wrong
<Button>Add Account</Button>
<Label>Expense Name</Label>
<p>No data available</p>
```

### Code: English

**All code, variables, functions, and comments MUST remain in English.** This includes:

- Variable names
- Function names
- Type/Interface names
- File names
- Comments and documentation
- Git commit messages
- Console logs (for debugging)

**Examples:**
```tsx
// ✅ Correct
const handleDeleteAccount = async () => { ... }
interface BankAccount { ... }
// Calculate the total balance

// ❌ Wrong
const handleExcluirConta = async () => { ... }
interface ContaBancaria { ... }
// Calcular o saldo total
```

---

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: React 19 + TypeScript + Vite
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui components
- **State**: Zustand
- **Backend**: Supabase (PostgreSQL + Auth + Realtime)
- **Deployment**: Vercel

---

## Currency

- **Default currency**: BRL (Brazilian Real)
- **Format**: `R$ 1.234,56` (Brazilian locale)
- **Internal storage**: Cents (integers) to avoid floating point issues

---

## Authentication

- **Method**: Magic Link (email-based, passwordless)
- **Access control**: Self-serve signup (no allowlist)
- **Session**: 7-day duration with auto-refresh

---

## Key Directories

```text
src/
├── components/     # React components
├── hooks/          # Custom React hooks
├── lib/            # Utilities and helpers
├── pages/          # Route pages
├── stores/         # Zustand stores
└── types/          # TypeScript types

supabase/
├── functions/      # Edge Functions
└── migrations/     # Database migrations

.specify/specs/     # Feature specifications
docs/               # Documentation
```

---

## Conventions

### File Naming
- Components: `kebab-case.tsx` (e.g., `account-form.tsx`)
- Hooks: `use-*.ts` (e.g., `use-auth.ts`)
- Types: `*.ts` in `types/` directory

### Component Structure
- One component per file (with internal helper components allowed)
- Props interface defined above component
- Export named components (not default)

### State Management
- Global state: Zustand stores
- Local state: React useState/useReducer
- Server state: Direct Supabase queries with realtime subscriptions
