docs/reference/market-analysis.md, before:

# Market Analysis & ICP Evaluation

## Fluxo Certo App — Product-Market Fit Assessment

**Document Version**: 1.0  
**Date**: December 2024  
**Author**: Product Analysis  

---

## Executive Summary

This document provides a strategic analysis of the Fluxo Certo application, evaluating its true competitive advantage, ideal customer profile (ICP), and market positioning opportunities.

**Key Finding**: The app's primary differentiator is not "ease of use" or "visualization" — it's the **dual-scenario cashflow projection with income certainty modeling**. This transforms the product from a generic finance tool into a specialized **income uncertainty management system**.

**Recommended Positioning**: "Know if you can pay your bills even when your income is unpredictable."

---

## Product Capability Analysis

### Core Features Inventory

Based on comprehensive codebase analysis, the application provides:

| Feature Category | Capabilities |
|------------------|--------------|
| **Cashflow Engine** | 30/60/90-day forward projections with daily granularity |
| **Dual Scenarios** | Optimistic (all income) vs Pessimistic (guaranteed only) |
| **Income Modeling** | Recurring + single-shot income with certainty levels |
| **Expense Tracking** | Fixed recurring + one-time expenses |
| **Danger Detection** | Automatic flagging of negative balance days |
| **Payment Flexibility** | Weekly, biweekly, twice-monthly, monthly schedules |
| **Health Indicators** | At-a-glance financial health status |
| **Projection Snapshots** | Historical captures for tracking prediction accuracy |
| **Household Support** | Multi-member households with shared finances |
| **Quick Update Ritual** | Streamlined monthly balance refresh flow |

### Technical Architecture Highlights

- **Stack**: React 19, TypeScript, Supabase (PostgreSQL), Zustand
- **Data Model**: All monetary values in cents (integer precision)
- **Localization**: Brazilian Portuguese UI, BRL currency default
- **Auth**: Magic link (passwordless) with invite-only access
- **Sync**: Real-time via Supabase subscriptions

---

## The True Competitive Advantage

### What Competitors Do

Most personal finance and cashflow apps fall into two categories:

1. **Budgeting Apps** (YNAB, Mint, Copilot)
   - Focus on categorizing past transactions
   - Envelope/budget allocation methodology
   - Requires high-touch daily/weekly maintenance
   - Answers: "Where did my money go?"

2. **Cashflow Projection Tools** (Various spreadsheet templates, Float, Pulse)
   - Single-scenario projections
   - Assume income certainty
   - Business-focused (not personal/household)
   - Answers: "What will my balance be on date X?"

### What This App Does Differently

**The Income Certainty Model**

```
Income Sources are tagged with certainty:
├── Guaranteed  → Appears in BOTH scenarios
├── Probable    → Appears in Optimistic ONLY  
└── Uncertain   → Appears in Optimistic ONLY
```

This enables the app to answer a fundamentally different question:

> "Will I have enough money to pay my bills **even if my uncertain income doesn't come through**?"

This is the **real value proposition** — not visualization, not ease of use.

### The Dual-Scenario Projection

| Scenario | Includes | Purpose |
|----------|----------|---------|
| **Optimistic** | All active income (guaranteed + probable + uncertain) | Best-case planning |
| **Pessimistic** | Only guaranteed income | Worst-case safety net |

**Why this matters**: A freelancer with $3,000 guaranteed retainer and $2,000 probable project income sees:
- Optimistic: +$5,000 income
- Pessimistic: +$3,000 income

If pessimistic shows danger days but optimistic doesn't → **actionable insight**: "I'm fine if the project pays, but I need a backup plan if it doesn't."

### Danger Day Detection

The app proactively identifies future dates where projected balance goes negative:

- **Optimistic Danger Days**: Critical — even best case shows problems
- **Pessimistic Danger Days**: Warning — problems if uncertain income fails

This transforms reactive "oops I'm overdrawn" into proactive "I need to move money from savings next week."

---

## Ideal Customer Profile (ICP)

### Primary ICP: The Income-Variable Household

**Demographics:**
- Dual-income households (typically)
- Age 28-50
- Combined income: $50K-$200K (comfortable but not wealthy)
- At least one partner has variable/unpredictable income

**Psychographics:**
- Financially responsible but not obsessive
- Prefers "good enough" over perfect tracking
- Values time (2-minute monthly ritual appeal)
- Experiences periodic cashflow anxiety despite adequate income
- Has tried and abandoned YNAB/Mint as "too much work"

**Income Patterns (at least one applies):**
- Freelance/contract work
- Commission-based compensation
- Project-based payments
- Irregular bonus structures
- Multiple income streams
- Seasonal work variations

### Secondary ICP Segments

| Segment | Description | Key Pain Point |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| **Solo Freelancers** | Single income, highly variable | "Will I make rent if this client is late?" |
| **Side Hustlers** | Stable job + variable side income | "Can I count on the side income for this purchase?" |
| **Small Business Owners** | Business income flows to personal | "When can I safely take an owner draw?" |
| **Commission Sales** | Base + variable commission | "What's my real take-home this month?" |
| **Gig Workers** | Multiple platforms, unpredictable | "How many days can I take off?" |
| **Seasonal Workers** | High income periods + low periods | "Will my savings last until next season?" |

### Anti-Personas (Who This Is NOT For)

| Anti-Persona | Why Not |
|--------------|---------|
| **Fixed-income employees** | Single scenario is sufficient; no uncertainty modeling needed |
| **Budget-obsessed trackers** | Want transaction categorization this app doesn't provide |
| **Debt-focused users** | Need debt payoff calculators, not cashflow projection |
| **Investment-focused users** | Need portfolio tracking, not cashflow visibility |
| **Paycheck-to-paycheck users** | Need budgeting discipline, not projection tools |

---

## Competitive Positioning

### Positioning Statement

> **For households with variable income** who need to know if they can cover upcoming expenses, **[Product Name]** is a **cashflow projection tool** that **shows you both best-case and worst-case scenarios** so you can plan with confidence. **Unlike** budgeting apps that track where money went, **we show you where it's going** — and warn you before problems happen.

### Competitive Matrix

| Feature | YNAB | Mint | Spreadsheets | This App |
|---------|------|------|--------------|----------|
| Transaction categorization | ✅ | ✅ | Manual | ❌ |
| Forward projection | Limited | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Dual scenarios | ❌ | ❌ | Manual | ✅ |
| Income certainty modeling | ❌ | ❌ | Manual | ✅ |
| Danger day detection | ❌ | ❌ | Manual | ✅ |
| Maintenance time | High | Medium | High | Low |
| Learning curve | Steep | Low | Medium | Low |

### Key Differentiators (Messaging Hierarchy)

1. **Primary**: "See your worst-case scenario, not just best-case"
2. **Secondary**: "2-minute monthly updates, not daily tracking"
3. **Tertiary**: "Danger warnings before you overdraft"
4. **Supporting**: "Built for variable income households"

---

## Market Opportunity

### Market Size Indicators

**Global Freelance Economy:**
- 1.57 billion freelancers globally (2023)
- 36% of U.S. workforce freelances (59 million people)
- Growing 3x faster than traditional workforce

**Brazil Specific:**
- 25+ million informal workers
- Growing gig economy (iFood, 99, Uber)
- Strong freelance/contractor culture in tech

**Variable Income Prevalence:**
- 44% of Americans have income that varies month-to-month
- 30% have experienced a 25%+ income drop in a month
- Commission-based roles growing across industries

### Competitive Landscape Gaps

| Gap | Opportunity |
|-----|-------------|
| No personal finance app specializes in income uncertainty | First-mover in niche |
| Budgeting apps require high maintenance | Position as "anti-YNAB" |
| Spreadsheet users have friction but proven need | Convert with better UX |
| Business cashflow tools don't serve households | Underserved segment |

### Pricing Benchmarks

| Competitor | Pricing | Model |
|------------|---------|-------|
| YNAB | $99/year | Subscription |
| Copilot | $70/year | Subscription |
| Mint | Free (ads) | Freemium |
| Tiller | $79/year | Subscription |

**Suggested Range**: $5-8/month or $49-79/year
**Freemium Option**: Free for basic, paid for snapshots/extended projections

---

## Messaging Recommendations

### Tagline Options

| Tagline | Emphasis |
|---------|----------|
| "Know your cashflow. Even when income isn't certain." | Income uncertainty |
| "See tomorrow's problems today." | Proactive warning |
| "The cashflow app for the self-employed." | Audience targeting |
| "Stop wondering. Start knowing." | Clarity/confidence |
| "Plan for the best. Prepare for the worst." | Dual scenario |

### Value Proposition Statements

**For Landing Page Hero:**
> "Most finance apps assume you know exactly when you'll get paid. We don't. See your cashflow in two scenarios — so you're prepared whether that invoice pays on time or not."

**For Feature Pages:**
> "Tag each income source as guaranteed, probable, or uncertain. We'll show you what happens in both the best case and worst case — so you can make real decisions, not hopeful guesses."

**For Social/Ads:**
> "Freelancer? Contractor? Commission-based? Finally, a cashflow app that understands your income isn't predictable."

### Objection Handling

| Objection | Response |
|-----------|----------|
| "I use spreadsheets" | "So did we. Then we spent 2 hours debugging a formula. Now we spend 2 minutes a month." |
| "I tried YNAB" | "YNAB is for budgeting. We're for cashflow projection. Different problems, different tools." |
| "My income is too unpredictable" | "That's exactly why you need this. We model uncertainty — we don't ignore it." |
| "I don't need to track every transaction" | "Neither do we. Update once a month, see 90 days ahead." |

---

## Strategic Recommendations

### Go-to-Market Priorities

1. **Launch in Brazil first** (pt-BR ready, BRL configured, home market)
2. **Target freelancer communities** (Twitter/X, Reddit, Discord servers)
3. **Content marketing** around "income uncertainty" and "cashflow anxiety"
4. **Partner with contractor platforms** (Upwork, Fiverr, Workana communities)

### Product Roadmap Suggestions

| Priority | Feature | Rationale |
|----------|---------|-----------|
| High | Onboarding wizard | Reduce time-to-value |
| High | Mobile app | Match user context (checking on phone) |
| Medium | Data export | Trust signal, reduce lock-in fear |
| Medium | Goal tracking | "Can I afford X by date Y?" |
| Low | Bank sync | Nice-to-have but not core value |
| Low | Multi-currency | International expansion |

### Metrics to Track

| Metric | Target | Why |
|--------|--------|-----|
| Time to first projection | < 10 min | Activation |
| Monthly active rate | > 80% | Retention |
| Update ritual completion | > 90% | Core loop engagement |
| Danger day accuracy | Track over time | Product-market fit signal |

---

## Appendix: Feature Deep-Dive

### Income Certainty Levels (from codebase)

```typescript
certainty: 'guaranteed' | 'probable' | 'uncertain'
```

- **Guaranteed**: Contractual, recurring, reliable (salary, retainers)
- **Probable**: Expected but not certain (regular clients, typical commission)
- **Uncertain**: Speculative, one-time, or unreliable (new leads, bonuses)

### Payment Schedule Support

```typescript
frequency: 'weekly' | 'biweekly' | 'twice-monthly' | 'monthly'
```

- Weekly/Biweekly: Day-of-week based (ISO 8601: Monday=1, Sunday=7)
- Twice-monthly: Two specific days per month (e.g., 1st and 15th)
- Monthly: Day-of-month with edge case handling (31st → 30th/28th)

### Health Indicator Logic

```typescript
if (optimisticDangerDays > 0) return 'danger'   // Red
if (pessimisticDangerDays > 0) return 'warning' // Yellow  
return 'good'                                    // Green
```

---

*Document generated from comprehensive codebase analysis including: 25+ specification documents, core calculation engine, type definitions, and user story documentation.*

Commit message:

refactor(db): rename household to group
- Rename 'households' table to 'groups' in database schema
- Update all TypeScript types, hooks, and components
- Rename useHousehold to useGroup hook
- Rename HouseholdBadge to GroupBadge component
- Update all test selectors to match new UI terminology
- Regenerate mobile visual snapshots after UI text changes

Database migration renames:
- households -> groups
- household_id -> group_id
- household_members -> group_members

UI terminology updates:
- 'Histórico de Snapshots' -> 'Histórico de Projeções'
- 'Salvar Snapshot' -> 'Salvar Projeção'
- 'Snapshot Histórico' -> 'Projeção Histórica'

docs/reference/market-analysis.md, after:

# Market Analysis & ICP Evaluation

## Fluxo Certo App — Product-Market Fit Assessment

**Document Version**: 1.0  
**Date**: December 2024  
**Author**: Product Analysis  

---

## Executive Summary

This document provides a strategic analysis of the Fluxo Certo application, evaluating its true competitive advantage, ideal customer profile (ICP), and market positioning opportunities.

**Key Finding**: The app's primary differentiator is not "ease of use" or "visualization" — it's the **dual-scenario cashflow projection with income certainty modeling**. This transforms the product from a generic finance tool into a specialized **income uncertainty management system**.

**Recommended Positioning**: "Know if you can pay your bills even when your income is unpredictable."

---

## Product Capability Analysis

### Core Features Inventory

Based on comprehensive codebase analysis, the application provides:

| Feature Category | Capabilities |
|------------------|--------------|
| **Cashflow Engine** | 30/60/90-day forward projections with daily granularity |
| **Dual Scenarios** | Optimistic (all income) vs Pessimistic (guaranteed only) |
| **Income Modeling** | Recurring + single-shot income with certainty levels |
| **Expense Tracking** | Fixed recurring + one-time expenses |
| **Danger Detection** | Automatic flagging of negative balance days |
| **Payment Flexibility** | Weekly, biweekly, twice-monthly, monthly schedules |
| **Health Indicators** | At-a-glance financial health status |
| **Projection Snapshots** | Historical captures for tracking prediction accuracy |
| **Group Support** | Multi-member groups with shared finances |
| **Quick Update Ritual** | Streamlined monthly balance refresh flow |

### Technical Architecture Highlights

- **Stack**: React 19, TypeScript, Supabase (PostgreSQL), Zustand
- **Data Model**: All monetary values in cents (integer precision)
- **Localization**: Brazilian Portuguese UI, BRL currency default
- **Auth**: Magic link (passwordless) with invite-only access
- **Sync**: Real-time via Supabase subscriptions

---

## The True Competitive Advantage

### What Competitors Do

Most personal finance and cashflow apps fall into two categories:

1. **Budgeting Apps** (YNAB, Mint, Copilot)
   - Focus on categorizing past transactions
   - Envelope/budget allocation methodology
   - Requires high-touch daily/weekly maintenance
   - Answers: "Where did my money go?"

2. **Cashflow Projection Tools** (Various spreadsheet templates, Float, Pulse)
   - Single-scenario projections
   - Assume income certainty
   - Business-focused (not personal/group)
   - Answers: "What will my balance be on date X?"

### What This App Does Differently

**The Income Certainty Model**

```
Income Sources are tagged with certainty:
├── Guaranteed  → Appears in BOTH scenarios
├── Probable    → Appears in Optimistic ONLY  
└── Uncertain   → Appears in Optimistic ONLY
```

This enables the app to answer a fundamentally different question:

> "Will I have enough money to pay my bills **even if my uncertain income doesn't come through**?"

This is the **real value proposition** — not visualization, not ease of use.

### The Dual-Scenario Projection

| Scenario | Includes | Purpose |
|----------|----------|---------|
| **Optimistic** | All active income (guaranteed + probable + uncertain) | Best-case planning |
| **Pessimistic** | Only guaranteed income | Worst-case safety net |

**Why this matters**: A freelancer with $3,000 guaranteed retainer and $2,000 probable project income sees:
- Optimistic: +$5,000 income
- Pessimistic: +$3,000 income

If pessimistic shows danger days but optimistic doesn't → **actionable insight**: "I'm fine if the project pays, but I need a backup plan if it doesn't."

### Danger Day Detection

The app proactively identifies future dates where projected balance goes negative:

- **Optimistic Danger Days**: Critical — even best case shows problems
- **Pessimistic Danger Days**: Warning — problems if uncertain income fails

This transforms reactive "oops I'm overdrawn" into proactive "I need to move money from savings next week."

---

## Ideal Customer Profile (ICP)

### Primary ICP: The Income-Variable Group

**Demographics:**
- Dual-income groups (typically)
- Age 28-50
- Combined income: $50K-$200K (comfortable but not wealthy)
- At least one partner has variable/unpredictable income

**Psychographics:**
- Financially responsible but not obsessive
- Prefers "good enough" over perfect tracking
- Values time (2-minute monthly ritual appeal)
- Experiences periodic cashflow anxiety despite adequate income
- Has tried and abandoned YNAB/Mint as "too much work"

**Income Patterns (at least one applies):**
- Freelance/contract work
- Commission-based compensation
- Project-based payments
- Irregular bonus structures
- Multiple income streams
- Seasonal work variations

### Secondary ICP Segments

| Segment | Description | Key Pain Point |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| **Solo Freelancers** | Single income, highly variable | "Will I make rent if this client is late?" |
| **Side Hustlers** | Stable job + variable side income | "Can I count on the side income for this purchase?" |
| **Small Business Owners** | Business income flows to personal | "When can I safely take an owner draw?" |
| **Commission Sales** | Base + variable commission | "What's my real take-home this month?" |
| **Gig Workers** | Multiple platforms, unpredictable | "How many days can I take off?" |
| **Seasonal Workers** | High income periods + low periods | "Will my savings last until next season?" |

### Anti-Personas (Who This Is NOT For)

| Anti-Persona | Why Not |
|--------------|---------|
| **Fixed-income employees** | Single scenario is sufficient; no uncertainty modeling needed |
| **Budget-obsessed trackers** | Want transaction categorization this app doesn't provide |
| **Debt-focused users** | Need debt payoff calculators, not cashflow projection |
| **Investment-focused users** | Need portfolio tracking, not cashflow visibility |
| **Paycheck-to-paycheck users** | Need budgeting discipline, not projection tools |

---

## Competitive Positioning

### Positioning Statement

> **For groups with variable income** who need to know if they can cover upcoming expenses, **[Product Name]** is a **cashflow projection tool** that **shows you both best-case and worst-case scenarios** so you can plan with confidence. **Unlike** budgeting apps that track where money went, **we show you where it's going** — and warn you before problems happen.

### Competitive Matrix

| Feature | YNAB | Mint | Spreadsheets | This App |
|---------|------|------|--------------|----------|
| Transaction categorization | ✅ | ✅ | Manual | ❌ |
| Forward projection | Limited | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ |
| Dual scenarios | ❌ | ❌ | Manual | ✅ |
| Income certainty modeling | ❌ | ❌ | Manual | ✅ |
| Danger day detection | ❌ | ❌ | Manual | ✅ |
| Maintenance time | High | Medium | High | Low |
| Learning curve | Steep | Low | Medium | Low |

### Key Differentiators (Messaging Hierarchy)

1. **Primary**: "See your worst-case scenario, not just best-case"
2. **Secondary**: "2-minute monthly updates, not daily tracking"
3. **Tertiary**: "Danger warnings before you overdraft"
4. **Supporting**: "Built for variable income groups"

---

## Market Opportunity

### Market Size Indicators

**Global Freelance Economy:**
- 1.57 billion freelancers globally (2023)
- 36% of U.S. workforce freelances (59 million people)
- Growing 3x faster than traditional workforce

**Brazil Specific:**
- 25+ million informal workers
- Growing gig economy (iFood, 99, Uber)
- Strong freelance/contractor culture in tech

**Variable Income Prevalence:**
- 44% of Americans have income that varies month-to-month
- 30% have experienced a 25%+ income drop in a month
- Commission-based roles growing across industries

### Competitive Landscape Gaps

| Gap | Opportunity |
|-----|-------------|
| No personal finance app specializes in income uncertainty | First-mover in niche |
| Budgeting apps require high maintenance | Position as "anti-YNAB" |
| Spreadsheet users have friction but proven need | Convert with better UX |
| Business cashflow tools don't serve groups | Underserved segment |

### Pricing Benchmarks

| Competitor | Pricing | Model |
|------------|---------|-------|
| YNAB | $99/year | Subscription |
| Copilot | $70/year | Subscription |
| Mint | Free (ads) | Freemium |
| Tiller | $79/year | Subscription |

**Suggested Range**: $5-8/month or $49-79/year
**Freemium Option**: Free for basic, paid for snapshots/extended projections

---

## Messaging Recommendations

### Tagline Options

| Tagline | Emphasis |
|---------|----------|
| "Know your cashflow. Even when income isn't certain." | Income uncertainty |
| "See tomorrow's problems today." | Proactive warning |
| "The cashflow app for the self-employed." | Audience targeting |
| "Stop wondering. Start knowing." | Clarity/confidence |
| "Plan for the best. Prepare for the worst." | Dual scenario |

### Value Proposition Statements

**For Landing Page Hero:**
> "Most finance apps assume you know exactly when you'll get paid. We don't. See your cashflow in two scenarios — so you're prepared whether that invoice pays on time or not."

**For Feature Pages:**
> "Tag each income source as guaranteed, probable, or uncertain. We'll show you what happens in both the best case and worst case — so you can make real decisions, not hopeful guesses."

**For Social/Ads:**
> "Freelancer? Contractor? Commission-based? Finally, a cashflow app that understands your income isn't predictable."

### Objection Handling

| Objection | Response |
|-----------|----------|
| "I use spreadsheets" | "So did we. Then we spent 2 hours debugging a formula. Now we spend 2 minutes a month." |
| "I tried YNAB" | "YNAB is for budgeting. We're for cashflow projection. Different problems, different tools." |
| "My income is too unpredictable" | "That's exactly why you need this. We model uncertainty — we don't ignore it." |
| "I don't need to track every transaction" | "Neither do we. Update once a month, see 90 days ahead." |

---

## Strategic Recommendations

### Go-to-Market Priorities

1. **Launch in Brazil first** (pt-BR ready, BRL configured, home market)
2. **Target freelancer communities** (Twitter/X, Reddit, Discord servers)
3. **Content marketing** around "income uncertainty" and "cashflow anxiety"
4. **Partner with contractor platforms** (Upwork, Fiverr, Workana communities)

### Product Roadmap Suggestions

| Priority | Feature | Rationale |
|----------|---------|-----------|
| High | Onboarding wizard | Reduce time-to-value |
| High | Mobile app | Match user context (checking on phone) |
| Medium | Data export | Trust signal, reduce lock-in fear |
| Medium | Goal tracking | "Can I afford X by date Y?" |
| Low | Bank sync | Nice-to-have but not core value |
| Low | Multi-currency | International expansion |

### Metrics to Track

| Metric | Target | Why |
|--------|--------|-----|
| Time to first projection | < 10 min | Activation |
| Monthly active rate | > 80% | Retention |
| Update ritual completion | > 90% | Core loop engagement |
| Danger day accuracy | Track over time | Product-market fit signal |

---

## Appendix: Feature Deep-Dive

### Income Certainty Levels (from codebase)

```typescript
certainty: 'guaranteed' | 'probable' | 'uncertain'
```

- **Guaranteed**: Contractual, recurring, reliable (salary, retainers)
- **Probable**: Expected but not certain (regular clients, typical commission)
- **Uncertain**: Speculative, one-time, or unreliable (new leads, bonuses)

### Payment Schedule Support

```typescript
frequency: 'weekly' | 'biweekly' | 'twice-monthly' | 'monthly'
```

- Weekly/Biweekly: Day-of-week based (ISO 8601: Monday=1, Sunday=7)
- Twice-monthly: Two specific days per month (e.g., 1st and 15th)
- Monthly: Day-of-month with edge case handling (31st → 30th/28th)

### Health Indicator Logic

```typescript
if (optimisticDangerDays > 0) return 'danger'   // Red
if (pessimisticDangerDays > 0) return 'warning' // Yellow  
return 'good'                                    // Green
```

---

*Document generated from comprehensive codebase analysis including: 25+ specification documents, core calculation engine, type definitions, and user story documentation.*
